ROSS: Mr Vercoe.
Cap'n Poldark.
- May I ask where these men are headed?
- Truro Gaol, sir.
And their crime?
Importing goods
without paying the required duty.
Some call it "Free Trading".
Some call it
the only way to afford life's necessities.
Brandy? Gin? These essentials, are they?
Salt is.
'Tis my duty to enforce the law, Cap'n.
Your commitment is heartwarming.
Move out'a.
Shouldn't rile 'im.
Couldn't resist.
I'm wanted at the mine.
I have fuses to set.
And you'd abandon me?
Suppose I met a footpad on the way home?
God help him.
(Gulls crying)
(Distant explosion)
(Coughing)
Still not through?
Can't be far off.
Can almost smell Trevorgie,
t'other side ofthat ironstone.
Another blast should do the trick.
- Will the shareholders keep faith with us?
- They're sensible men, most ofthem.
And I intend to make a robust argument.
So...we carry on?
We carry on.
(Grunting)
- They've broken through?
- Almost.
Ross Poldark is tenacious.
(Grunting)
Ultimately, I expect Wheal Leisure
to do very well for me.
Well, why else would 'ee buy shares in it?
On whose land does Wheal Leisure sit?
Who is its main shareholder?
And his latest scheme
is about to come to fruition.
- It's just too easy.
- (Grunting)
Were you hurt in the blast?
'Tis bruisin' I have all the time,
swelling too, same as Ted.
Sir.
- What is it?
- Like a plague, Ross.
- Halfthe mine's afflicted.
- Halfthe village beside.
Should we send these men home?
They can't afford to lose their pitches.
Well, they won't, of course, but we need them fit.
Get Dwight Enys.
Dwight Enys is a scoundrel.
For all he knows, I might be dead.
I think I would have informed him,
had that been the case.
CAROLINE: "DrEnys,
having saved my life some months ago,
you appearto have
no further interest in my recovery.
I would nonetheless esteem it a favour
if you would call
to assure yourself of my full recovery
and to receive payment for your skill.
Unless, of course,
you have more important matters to attend."
Lift your head up.
(Coughing)
Show me your teeth.
I can't account for these symptoms.
Swelling, bruising, bleeding gums,
listlessness...
Is it the dust? The foul air ofthe mine?
I wondered that,
but some ofthese people are fisherfolk.
It's perplexing.
(Coughing)
(Hums merrily)
♪ The summer and the May, oh
♪ For winter is a-come, oh...
Is that wise...
with the current so strong hereabouts?
I know 'em well enough.
Will Ross be happy?
He'll be happy wi' these.
And who's to tell him where I got 'em?
- How long will Jud be gone?
- Don't talk to me ofthat slinkin' g'eat lurker.
Any excuse to shirk his chores an' study
the inside o' Sally Chill-off's kiddley.
"Keeping 'is head down," he says.
I'll keep 'is head down!
Could someone have caused the bruises?
She says they come oftheir own accord,
but how?
I can't fathom it.
Is it Paludal fever? Is it purpura?
I've tried...fresh air, sunlight,
goat's milk, nutmeg...
Perhaps what I should try is
a different profession.
The navy, perhaps?
You'd enjoy ships' rations -
salt pork, dried biscuit, weevils...
No doubt and be all the healthier for it.
Of course.
What?
Biscuit, salt, no fresh fruit, no green vegetables.
I thank you, Ross.
What for?
Helping me diagnose the complaint.
Scurvy.
Cap'n Poldark, sir?
Thank you, sir.
Dwight, this just came for you...
..from Killewarren.
(Horse whinnies)
You seem in haste, George.
Have you urgent business afoot?
- All my business is urgent.
- Including your assault-by-proxy?
- Excuse me?
- My servant, a witness at the trial,
- was attacked and left for dead.
- How is that my concern?
Only that it would be a mistake to imagine such
intimidation could continue to be one-sided.
Is that a threat, Ross? Is it?
(Cockerel crows)
Las' night in Sawle,
they say another drop was ambushed.
More cargo lost
and four more sent to Bodmin Gaol.
Since the riots in Bodmin,
the district's been crawling wi' soldiers.
They'm clean out of salt
from Padstowe to St Ives.
It do bode ill for when the shoals come in.
- Fish won't keep.
- Fish won't sell.
JINNY: Mam says if it weren't for Mr Ross...
Where are these from?
Nampara Cove.
You went out in the boat?
No, I whistled and they came a-dancin'
out the waves.
Have you no sense?
Yes and an extra mouth to feed.
Then at least do the courtesy of
taking more care of yourself in future.
I won't be home late.
(Door opens)
(Door slams)
AUNT AGATHA: What's that contraption?
ELIZABETH: A Virgula divinitoria.
It's believed to sniff out metal.
AUNT AGATHA: Since they reconciled, I was
hoping Francis would look to Ross for guidance.
Mm.
That upstart Warleggan hasn't called of late.
He and Francis have quarrelled.
I wonder he doesn't call in your loans.
Perhaps he has another plan.
Such as?
Should I know how the Devil's mind works?
You'd better keep him sweet.
Perhaps you should pay him a visit.
I've no influence over George.
I've summoned Dr Choake
to come and visit you.
I find myself in excellent health, thank you, Aunt,
and I will improve further when we have
a working mine to our name
and are no longer reliant on Warleggan charity.
Little Verity should be here.
She'd know what to do.
- Will you join me aboard next week?
- People will think me a bad wife,
always gallivanting off
and sunning myself in Lisbon.
That makes you a good wife,
for acceding to your husband's wishes.
I think they are yours too.
- You know they are.
- (Chuckles)
I've had word from James.
- Oh?
- His ship was diverted to Penang.
- And Esther?
- Remains with her governess in Plymouth.
But, when James returns,
they will both come and visit us.
I shall insist.
Do you ever think the price was too high?
Your children shun us.
My brother disowns us.
Well, we have at least one friend,
to whom we owe everything.
Of course we're happy.
I could not be more so.
And yet?
My brother will not forgive me
and Andrew's children decline to meet me.
Not that I blame them.
I've replaced their dear, departed mother.
They must hate me.
- When they meet you...
- I fear that will never happen.
Ifthey will not accept me, how much worse will
it be ifAndrew and I have a child of our own?
Are you...?
No. Not yet.
But children are the natural consequence
of marriage, are they not?
It would appear so.
DWIGHT: "Dear Madam, I am happy to hear
of your recovery but be assured, as to payment,
I am amply recompensed by
the knowledge of your gratitude".
"To you, Dr Enys, no doubt the saving of my life
seems a very small service.
To me, it assumes a slightly greater
significance. I therefore enclose a guinea,
which is the smallest value, little as I esteem
myself, that I could put upon your services.
Be so kind as to attend me today".
Do you think Elizabeth
could ever be persuaded to meet me here?
Even for half an hour? With Geoffrey Charles?
Would she do that behind Francis's back?
No, she would never.
But I do miss them so terribly.
(Verity sighs)
You see. He will never be reconciled.
(Door opens)
Dr Enys.
How kind of you to call.
I haven't been waiting above three months.
I apologise, Miss Penvenen.
I've been busy with my other patients.
Doubtless they're more important than I.
Only insofar as
their conditions are more serious.
Well?
Are you going to examine my throat or not?
Open your mouth, please.
Wider, please.
Most satisfactory.
You'll have no further trouble.
How brusque you are today.
Is your friend Ross Poldark so peremptory?
He has little time for pleasantries,
ifthat's what you mean.
Do you ride, Dr Enys?
For pleasure, that is?
I'm sure you'll appreciate I have very little time
when I'm taken up with...
More serious complaints.
So, tell me, what are they?
Scrofula, phthisis, scurvy.
- What can be done for them?
- For scrofula, nothing.
For er...scurvy, a doctor's drugs are useless,
but simple foods - green vegetables, fresh fruit -
can effect an almost immediate cure.
But...these are precisely what
the poor cannot afford, so they bleed and die.
Why do they not spend less on gin
and more on oranges?
Oranges?
Oranges, when they can be had,
cost thruppence apiece.
Gin costs less than sixpence a quart,
yet many are as sober as you or I.
Will you do any good,
attempting to save these people?
They will only multiply
and then there'll be more mouths to feed.
Of course, it's sad to see them die,
but at least it keeps the numbers in check.
Do I shock you?
Only by your assumption that
you will not be included in this stocktaking.
But of course I won't.
I'm a Penvenen, so I'm rich and privileged.
Would you excuse me, madam?
My patients require me.
I shall take the liberty of returning your fee.
You consider yourselftainted by it?
I bid you good day.
(Indistinct chatter)
ROSS: Gentlemen, we have good news
to report. Mr Henshawe?
Our latest excavations
have taken us through to what we calculate
to be feet from the old Trevorgie copper lode.
Now, I'm aware
this has taken longer than we'd hoped,
but it is my beliefthat
the next blast will see us break through.
So it only remains for us to secure your approval
to divert this quarter's profits for the last time.
One final push.
Do we have everyone's agreement?
- Eight weeks?
- Yes.
Beyond your wildest estimate,
and you're still not through?
Ironstone is no respecter oftime or money.
But we, as shareholders, must be, surely?
Each quarter, we've seen our profits
diverted into a scheme
which has so far yielded precisely nothing.
Optimism's one thing,
but what ifyou've got your bearings wrong
and bypassed the old workings altogether?
No man in these parts knows the workings
better than Captain Henshawe.
But if he's wrong,
you might dig on for years and never connect.
HENSHAWE: I say we put it to a vote.
All those in favour of continuing?
All those against?
Motion to continue denied.
Shall we close the meeting?
- There's nothing further to report.
- One moment, sir.
You will no doubt have noted
the absence of Mr Renfrew?
As of yesterday, he is no longer a shareholder,
having sold his shares to me.
GEORGE: Was he furious?
Not with me.
But then he knows
I am not the actual owner ofthe shares.
(Horse whinnies)
You pass my house without paying a call?
- How have I offended you?
- As I think you know, George, since the trial...
The trial? Is that not behind us now?
Cannot we move forward,
rekindle our former connection?
- I'm not sure how possible that...
- Please.
At least return with me
and take some refreshment.
Mm.
- Mr Trencrom.
- Cap'n Poldark.
What can I do for you, Mr Trencrom?
May a man not call, in neighbourly fashion,
enquire after your affairs,
see how they prosper, speak a little of his own?
Suppose you speak first of yours...
..so I may come to a quicker understanding
ofyour interest in mine?
(Trencrom chuckles)
I'm sad you've declined my invitations of late.
We decline all invitations.
We simply cannot afford to return the hospitality.
May I venture to suggest
that I am a "special case"?
And, difficult as things are at Trenwith, they
could, I'm sure you realise, be so much worse.
And if Francis cannot say so, allow me
to convey the thanks ofthe entire family.
Not the entire family, surely?
MR TRENCROM:
My affairs do far from prosper.
Oh, business is brisk,
as far as consumption goes.
- The difficulty comes with the supply.
- So I hear.
What do you hear?
That the customs officials at St Ann's
are determined to let nothing slip ashore.
And that all your attempts to persuade them with
a share ofthe profits have fallen on deaf ears.
And now this crackdown from on high means
that every time we find a new landing place,
we're met by gaugers and military.
All cargo confiscated.
Crew barely 'scaped with their lives.
So here's the thing...
we've run out of navigable inlets.
And I possess the only one for miles.
Actually, I expect to be seeing
a good deal of Ross in future.
- I've increased my shareholding in his mine.
- Oh.
So I hope I won't have cause
to inflict undue pressure on him.
Or on Francis, for that matter.
What might cause you to?
I wonder.
Your cove is not ideal,
but we could land there safely on still nights.
I'd handle the distribution.
All you'd need to do is draw your curtains.
And what do you think
would induce me to do so?
Ross...
We could discuss a lump sum per cargo.
How does £50 sound?
(Chuckles)
I see you've not lost your sense of humour.
(Laughs) Is that such a poor offer?
What would you suggest?
£200 per cargo.
- Ross...
- My dear sir.
Impossible.
Make the journey almost without profit.
- Not to mention salt.
- Salt?
There's less profit in salt than tea or brandy.
Less call for it,
among my more genteel customers.
£200 per cargo and six casks of salt.
That's my price. Take it or leave it.
(Trencrom exhales sharply)
What is it you seek, George?
Your friendship.
A renewal of our former intimacy.
A gradual...increase in it.
Is that too much too ask?
Particularly if it safeguards those you love?
(Trencrom chuckles)
I do not believe Francis would be happy
about my visiting here ofen...
..if at all.
A pity.
A very great pity.
£200, for letting tub-carriers use our cove?
- That won't buy you out of prison.
- I don't intend to be there.
I can't stand it again.
The frettin', the not sleepin', the picturin' you
a-hangin' at Bargus Crossroads.
Were we not in dire straits, I wouldn't do it.
Today I learned that George
has bought up more ofWheal Leisure.
With £200, we can keep our heads above water
and Sawle can salt its pilchards.
Why is it fine for you to run risks when
I may not even take a boat out in calm waters?
Believe me, I have every intention
of keeping on the right side ofthe law.
Or at least the blind side.
'Tis a cryin' shame
we stopped the tunnel to Trevorgie.
In my bones, I could feel we were close.
- Where do you estimate we'd got to?
- Well...
..nigh-on that clump o' trees.
- Halfway towards Wheal Grace?
- I'd say so. Your father's old mine.
It's never occurred to me till now
how close it is to the old Trevorgie workings.
Reckon 'twouldn't hurt to take a closer look
at Trevorgie from that end.
Mebbe the old men found a way through
that we know nothin' of.
Is that what Mark meant...
..the night he went away to France?
There's money in that mine.
Copper.
I never see'd a more keenly lode.
- You think he wandered into Trevorgie?
- Could he?
- But if it's all under water...
- With no way of draining it.
..we'd need one ofthem
new-fangled pumping-engines.
Which cost.
Let me think on it.
If I decide to take it any further,
I'll come back to you.
- What are you up to?
- Daydreaming.
Wheal Grace?
You don't intend to resurrect her?
If my finances ever match my ambitions.
(Chuckles)
The curse ofthe Poldarks.
Plenty of one, none ofthe other.
Dr Enys, are you now a peddler?
They're for my patients. When these are gone,
there'll be nothing till next harvest.
- Do your patients enjoy worms and mould?
- Beggars cannot be choosers.
(Indistinct shouting)
Almonds, sugar, oranges and chocolate.
- You spoil me.
- May I not? (Chuckles)
But, in fact, it is not all for you.
The sugar is for James,
the chocolates are for Esther.
They come in a month. Are you happy now?
Yes, of course.
Ah, Caroline.
This from Unwin.
Pressing the subject of an engagement.
Now he's an MP...
His coffers need to keep pace
with his ambitions?
Oh, for shame, Caroline.
One must not assume mercenary motives.
I dearly hope that both of you
are marrying for love.
(Laughs) You think Unwin loves me?
You do not?
I think he loves my £20,000.
Oh, I will be sorry to think so.
Does it not strike you as odd?
I'm an heiress, yet I have no money of my own.
- Suppose you give me some?
- Well...
I-I have no objection
to advancing you something
but, in all the day, what will you spend it on?
I mean, your every need is catered for here.
- £50?
- How much?
What's the use of being rich,
if one can't have a flutter now and then?
Caroline.
You know I disapprove of gaming.
But this would be a new type of gambling,
Uncle.
It appeals to me
and I have a fancy to indulge the whim.
I saw Ross.
- Was he well?
- He's considering a new venture.
Ofwhat nature?
Mining, of course. What else?
Whether we like it or not, it's in our blood.
Right. Come on, boy.
Shall we go see ifwe can strike lucky? (Grunts)
HENSHAWE: How far is it?
ZACKY: Quarter of a mile.
HENSHAWE: Give me a shovel,
I'll dig it myself and be back in time for supper.
- (Laughter)
PRUDIE: Someone's full ofthe joys of spring.
Always is when he's up and doin'.
'Tis sittin' still he can't abide.
ROSS: This section's mostly shallow.
The lower levels are flooded.
We'd surely need an engine.
- Those two young engineers in Redruth...
- Trevithick and Bull?
- They've some interesting new ideas.
- At a price.
And we don't yet know
ifthere's ore enough to make it worthwhile.
Is it worth the risk?
We have these samples, this map, Mark's word.
Your pigheadedness.
- And against that?
- Ah.
- Time? Money? Common sense?
- (Laughter)
Is it a secret or can we all be told?
All in good time.
But, for tonight, draw the curtains early
and ignore any sounds outside.
And where will you be?
- Taking delivery ofthe cargo.
- Ross, you cannot.
- Already arranged.
- Dis-arrange it!
ROSS: Here they come.
(Whispers) So far, so good.
TED: (Softly) So I should hope.
Who else could know about this?
Yet the other landings
up the coast were surprised.
- Mr Trencrom did advise us to trust no one.
CHARLIE: Keep the horse straight.
(Whispers) Gaugers.
PAUL: (Whispers) How many?
Just the one.
Vercoe.
- I'll head him off.
- Nay, Ross.
If he sees you, you're as good as hanged.
It's clear. Let's go.
(Barks)
Ifthey varmints come troaching
across our flower-beds, I'll...
(Gate latch clicks)
(Door closes)
(Approaching footsteps)
(Door opens)
It's over.
Is it?
Demelza, try to see this in a rational light.
I'm home.
The tide is high.
There's no footprints on the beach.
There'll be salt for the pilchards.
And we are £200 less in debt
than we were this morning.
- Is it not a cause to celebrate?
- That you go against my wishes?
- For the good of us both.
- That you take risks you need not take?
- On this occasion...
- You think you can do as you please,
while I always do as you bid me?
Well, think again!
(Door slams)
Well, my love?
The Thunderer docks at noon.
I'll collect James, then meet Esther off
the Plymouth coach and be with you by two.
Do not make yourself uneasy.
They will adore you as much as I do.
Thank you so much.
Miss Penvenen?
- Captain Poldark.
- Are you lost?
- Do I look it?
- You're far from home.
Perhaps I enjoy my own company.
You should make the most of it.
I hear you're to be married soon.
Do you recommend the estate?
When both parties agree.
We cannot all follow our hearts.
Surely an heiress can?
What an amusing idea.
Excuse me, I'm late for the hunt.
Ross. Is it you I have to thank for this windfall?
What is it?
Oranges.
I think we both know
I am not your mysterious benefactor.
CAROLINE: Oranges?
Oranges.
If I made you a gift, it would be a better
instrument for removing fish bones.
You bruised my mouth with your fingers,
remember?
I knew it was you. I'm very grateful.
They'll be life-saving.
Good heavens. You don't imagine I care
about the fate of a few fishwives, do you?
You wouldn't take my guinea.
So...?
I knew your conscience wouldn't let you
refuse a gif for your starving patients.
So you see, now you're under obligation to me.
(Chuckles)
Is that where you prefer your men?
You're rather impertinent.
I like you very much too.
(Approaching footsteps)
Oh, there you are, Caroline.
The fox escaped us but er...Dr Enys.
Dr Enys,
I-I hear you're rather good at curing dogs.
Did you notice Horace has
a little spot on his ear?
Has he?
Perhaps Dr Enys might take a look at it
after we've gone?
For 12 bags of oranges,
he shall have the best attention I can give him.
(Indistinct chatter)
HENSHAWE: Do we wait for Mr Tankard?
- He knows the time ofthe meeting.
Proceed, Mr Henshawe.
Last month,
we sent two parcels of red copper to auction.
This month we'll have two, maybe three.
The question is, do we take on extra men,
aside from those back on tribute
since the closing ofthe tunnels?
Mr Tankard is not here,
so we must take a vote without him.
Gentlemen, sh...
Forgive my tardiness.
The fox led us a merry dance,
but we got him in the end.
Er... You were expecting Mr Tankard?
He will no longer attend.
I feel, as a principal shareholder, it befits me
to take a more robust interest from now on.
Perhaps you will kindly outline your suggestions
and I shall give them my best consideration.
What do it mean?
It means we cannot move an inch
without his say-so.
Nothin' to be done.
Or is there?
You will sell half my shares in Wheal Leisure.
If you wish.
And you will demand the very highest price.
I know for certain George will pay.
I think it's for the best.
Indeed, had you done so a year ago...
Still, not too late to pay off your debts
and start afresh.
Very true, but that's not in fact
how I intend to use the money.
Ross, it's good to see you.
Is Francis here?
- Yes, he's...
- Ah. I thought I heard your voice.
- Is this a social call?
- Not exactly.
What?
I'm opening Wheal Grace.
- You don't mean it?
- Yes.
That's cheerful news.
Henshawe and I have been down.
The lower level's flooded, we need an engine,
but there's enough ore
in the shallows to get us through.
- Who's investing the money?
- I've sold half my shares in Wheal Leisure.
I can realise £600.
- 600?
- Yes.
Erm...you've told me more than once
about the money you've put by.
Yes.
With £1 ,200, we could do a great deal.
- You're suggesting we go into partnership?
- Yes.
ROSS: It's a risk, in more ways than one.
- George has a long arm.
- To hell with George.
- And you could well lose your money.
- Well, I like a gamble.
One can gamble on a man as well as a mine.
Well, I can't guarantee the mine.
Well, ifthat's how you feel,
let's shake hands on it.
Ross, before you take this forward,
there are certain things I should tell you.
Past things?
And I shouldn't feel that I could...
- ..proceed unless you were fully apprised of...
- If it's the past, let's forget it.
I don't think I want to hear it.
Well, ifthat's the case,
I don't think I want to hear it myself.
To the Poldarks.
- Mr Ross won' like it.
- Mr Ross won't be told, will he?
No, mistress.
(Knock on door)
I'm Esther.
Oh. Oh, my dear. You've come too soon.
No, I meant...
I did not expect you till this afternoon.
I came on the early coach.
- Is my father here?
- He's gone to meet your brother.
Won't you come in?
Oh, my dear, it's...
it's so good to meet you at last.
Will itjust be the two of you?
- No other shareholders?
- None whatsoever.
There is one further point.
I wish my shares in the mine
to be vested in my son's name.
But he's still a child, isn't he?
Yes, but if George Warrlegan learns
of our partnership,
he may try to get at Ross through me.
But ifthe shares belong to Geoffrey Charles,
well, then George cannot touch them.
As you wish.
I've a fancy to buy a nosegay for Elizabeth.
Shall we meet at the Red Lion
then ride home together?
By all means.
(Dog barking)
You may be interested to know I've just
purchased more shares in Wheal Leisure.
I wish you joy ofthem.
So the rumours are true?
You and Francis
are going into business together?
I see you have your ear to the ground.
Or should I say to the keyhole?
(Chuckles) I'm surprised to hear
you're pinning your hopes on Wheal Grace.
What do you hope to find there? Gold?
No.
Freedom to call our souls our own.
I suppose you know where
Francis got the money he's investing?
Yes and we're very much obliged to you,
George.
Yes, we paid it him for services rendered.
In exchange for the names of
the Carnmore Copper Company shareholders.
£600.
Or should I say 30 pieces of silver?
MAN: Hey! Hey, there!
Stop it!
(Grunting)
- (Clattering)
- (Man cries out)
Hey, there!
Get out!
Sir?
(Door slams)
Ross?
(Grunts)
(Panting)
DWIGHT: Could it be true?
Francis certainly had
the money from George.
And it's clear to me
he had something on his conscience,
but the thought that he would
deliberately sell my secrets to George...
If it's true, how can I go into business with him?
- But if you accuse him and you're wrong?
- He'll never forgive me.
So, either way, the partnership is doomed.
ANDREW: Captain Poldark?
- Captain Blamey!
- You've been in the wars?
- My surgeon has patched me up.
Dr Dwight Enys...Captain Andrew Blamey,
my cousin Verity's husband.
- Your servant, sir.
- And yours, sir.
If you're sure you'll survive,
I've other patients to attend to.
Dwight!
There is one further service
you can render me.
I don't think you're at all like your father,
are you, my dear?
No, ma'am. I favour my mother.
She was very beautiful.
More so than...
After she died, people tried
to poison me against her, but I know better.
- She was a saint.
- Of course.
And I know I could never replace her.
But I hope you'll come to look upon me
as a loving friend.
- Is Verity well?
- Exceedingly. Well, that's not entirely true.
She tries to conceal it,
but I know she grieves the loss of her family
and I am the last person to intervene.
- You are.
FRANCIS: Enys told me to come say hello.
Apparently, you're barred from the Red Lion.
- You...
- Walk with us, Francis.
- You look as ifyou need the air.
- I will not trouble you in this company.
Francis, this is the last moment
to wipe out the past.
My erm...sister seems to find
her new life agreeable.
And I will never give her cause
to think otherwise.
- Not that she takes account of my approval.
- She would dearly love it.
That's why I also desire it.
Suppose you've heard of my cousin's
encounter with George Warleggan?
Threw him across the Red Lion, broke his nose.
- Not quite.
- I congratulate you.
I've wished to do the same myself.
Verity told me about a developing feud.
What was the cause ofthe quarrel today?
I took a dislike to his neck-cloth.
(Andrew laughs)
Ow!
(Groans)
Time to go. Time to go home.
(Groaning and panting)
Ow!
(Door opens)
Oh, Andrew, I can't bear it. Esther despises me.
When James comes, pray excuse me.
I cannot face both ofthem together.
My dear...this is James...my son.
Good day to you, ma'am.
I've heard a deal of good about you.
You'll pardon the liberty, ma'am, but one
don't get a new mother every day ofthe week.
Come down, Esther.
I know you'll be sulking, but this is
our family now, so it's well to get used to it.
Do you have any rum, ma'am?
I've a powerful thirst on me.
Of course.
You spoke to him? Civilly?
And shook his hand.
(Grunts)
(Gasps)
(Grunts and moans)
Demelza?
Garrick?
- Where's Garrick?
- Sir, I tell'd mistress not to go, but...
Prudie?
- You let her go?
- 'Ee ever tried to stop 'er?
(Mutters)
(Demelza grunts)
Give me the oars, Demelza.
- I can manage. (Grunts)
- Give me the oars!
- You are the most stubborn, pigheaded...
- (Groans)
- Oh, I am?
- Where would you be if I hadn't come along?
Where would you be if I hadn't come along?
Drinkin' an brawlin' an' dodgin' the noose.
Let's examine my failings
at a more convenient time, shall we?
- (Grunts)
- Come on.
Ah, Judas!
- (Grunts)
- Stop wriggling!
- You're hateful! (Groans)
- You're infuriating!
(Demelza screams)
- I could crown you!
- By all means.
Once you've delivered our child.
(Footsteps)
You have a son.
(Baby cries)
GEORGE: Miss Penvenen,
you're surely not returning to London?
- Help me to change her mind, George.
- Don't trouble yourself.
I must return to civilisation.
One can only take so many barbarians.
Dr Enys?
I've ordered more oranges.
Oranges?
Goodbye, Dwight.
Such a quaint name.
I wonder ifwe'll ever meet again.
Drive on!
Wheal Grace.
I never thought I'd see the day.
Nor I.
Nor any of us.
- Here we are.
- Thank you.
- To the Poldarks.
- And Wheal Grace.
ALL: The Poldarks and Wheal Grace!
ANDREW: Shall we go and have a look round?
ELIZABETH: Yes.
My father named this mine after my mother.
He did love 'er.
He did.
Yet folks said he was a wastrel.
(Chuckles) While she lived, she kept him steady.
- He set his course by her.
- Like the North Star.
Like the North Star.
But I have no such need.
The North Star is not the brightest in the sky.
Well, what is?
The Dog Star.
Which is fitting...
..since I found my star in a dog fight.